My sister's boy is a junior here at A&M.
I mean my daughter.
And he's saying something about the clay pits, but I hadn't figured out where the clay pits were yet.
Apparently they were down the Wilburn Road and off in the pasture, maybe a mile or two that way and a mile or two that way.
It's down around Wilburn somewhere, but I don't know.
I just never did.
I didn't have any money.
But were there some clay?
Yeah, there's a lot of people who went down there and had parties and picnics.
Now how often did you and your buddies go to Bryan for anything?
Well, about the only time I went to Bryan is to go to the picture show.
cost you a dime to get over there on one of these taxis.
They had a taxi that had come around to Tencent and then they had that old bus that stopped right across from the YMCA until it got filled and then he'd take off and go to the brine.
And I never forget one day we were over there and while he was waiting for the thing to fill up he was
had a barber shop under the YMCA.
An old bug got at it and started that thing and took all those kids to Brown and parked it over there where it always worked.
uh was there were there some places that you heard about that apparently were operating illegally i've never heard of any place that where there was a bootlegger in brazos county during that time did you ever hear of any as far as i know no well i never heard of any
And I've never heard of anybody mention a house of ill repute, where there were women for sale.
No, as far as I know, I never had it.
I was here for four years, and I didn't.
How bad did the depression affect you and your fellow students?
How bad was it?
Give me examples.
Well, you didn't have a car.
You know, the depression really started when I was about, when it really kind of affected me.
Because my dad, he just worked when he could find a job.
And that was in, must have been 28, 29 something, where I really could notice, where I had to have a little.
And when it came to chopping cotton and picking cotton,
I was there.
And I'll never forget the first time I got a 14-foot sack.
I really thought that was something.
I don't know whether you ever know about the 14-foot sack or not.
What was the pay then for picking cotton?
40 cents to 100.
And I'm telling you, it took a long time to pick 100 pounds.
especially if he was on the other end and the wearer was on the other end.
Had to pick that thing up and take it down there and weigh it.
But that's a dollar a day if you're chopping cotton.
And I'd say they pick you up at 7 o'clock in the morning and they'd drop you back at night
after you couldn't see the rose.
A long 12, 14 hour day.
With money being scarce, do you remember during your student days anybody getting their money stolen?
Did y'all worry about theft on the campus?
On the campus?
The only thing I ever remember really of
One of the boys from Carson Kennan, I'll never forget, he stole a bicycle.
Did he get caught?
He got caught.
And the students ran him off.
The military had nothing to do with it.
They let the students have it.
And I'll never forget that.
I guess the kids that came to A&M, they must have wanted an education.
Describe as much as you can what a typical Aggie was in those days.
What made those students special?
I can't really give you a real good description other than, I guess they just got into this routine that you get up, you go to your classes, and you eat, and then you go to your classes, and then you eat, and you study.
Except Wednesday afternoon.
And that's when everybody had to do their marching.
That was the day that they had the drill out there that afternoon.
And they had some old horses over there in the field artillery.
And they'd get to teach you over how to ride those things.
And everybody
treated their old horses a different way, you know, and they were mean.
And some of the mornings you'd get up and dress and go down there and ride those horses and then you had to come back and then dress again to go to class and it's that ten minute
periods you know.
I don't know how much they got in an hour for change.
Half hour.
Half hour to change classes.
We just had ten minutes.
But I don't know.
It just seemed to me like now I had this good friend that went to North Texas and he's telling me what all they did and you know it was completely different.
Now, did it matter in your days at A&M whether you were a country boy or a city boy?
Well, I guess they knew it.
The only thing they really knew when you was a freshman, you had that strap around your arm, I mean around your cup, that white strap.
Now, how soon after you arrived did you have to start learn the Aggie routine of whipping up?
It didn't take you long.
Did you ever get whacked with a... I've had my honey as black as your shoes.
I mean, from a coat hanger to one of those old paddles and
did did y'all when you were a fish did y'all ever pay a sophomore back did you ever as far as I know I never did let's see did uh what about the steam tunnels did you did you ever get down in no I didn't I heard about some of those kids getting in down there but
I never did get in there.
Let's see, back to student attitudes.
Were you aware that there was a wide variety of students in terms of where, what, whether they were Baptist or Methodist or Catholic, did that matter?
Didn't to me because most of the churches that we had then, either the Baptist or the Methodist right up there at Northgate.
And I think there's another church up there, but I was a Methodist and I,
I went mostly at around 10 o'clock Sunday morning.
They had two services, I think, 9 or 10, and then 11 to 12.
Were there some Hispanic boys at A&M then, Mexican-American?
Yes.
In fact, one of them I hated the most was from Mexico.
He'd get out there at the door and holler, freshman, and hear all the freshmen running down there.
He'd open the door and say, what y'all want?
He said, I didn't call.
Uh-oh.
But that's the only one in our outfit, and that was when I was a freshman.
Were there any Jewish students then?
I'm sure there were.
Did students have nicknames for each other then?
Well, then the freshmen didn't just fix them.
Okay.
Other than that, no, I don't remember any.
Let's see.
As you listened to that radio that you said you brought with you,
As you listen to the radio, did the events in the world begin to concern you?
Were you all worried much about Hitler and what was happening in Europe?
As far as I know, it didn't to me.
But when I got out and they sent me to Waco,
And I signed up then, and then that was in 39.
Then it started.
But no, as far as I know, I know one thing.
They did pull a few out while they were here.
And they'd have to replace them.
The younger ones.
Let's see.
What was Final Review like?
Well, it was sad.
You'd get out there.
Had those wool clothes on.
You were marching.
And it was about 11 o'clock in the morning.
It was tough.
Lots of them, I saw a lot of them drop out, faint.
But after my sophomore year, I never did any of that.
You know, I didn't have to do it.
But it's...
And, you know, say to my mom, shake hands, go through all your group that you'd been with for four years, and shake hands.
It was a sad situation.
And some of them that I've never seen again.
About how many graduated when you did?
Seemed to me, I was, I would say in around the 400.
Do you remember how many started out?
Yeah, I think it was around 1,400 something.
1,400 freshmen?
Uh-huh.
And about 400, you think, graduated.
And we graduated...
in the old U over at Cobb Hill.
Mama was asking some of them where they graduated, and they didn't even know where they graduated.
They built a little platform out there, and her daddy shook my hand.
What kind of world did you think you were going out into?
I had no more.
I knew it couldn't have been.
any worse than some before I ever got to A&M.
And you have no idea how poor we were.
How far had you traveled before commencement?
Where had you been to?
Well, you mean out of Texas?
I hadn't.
You had never been out of Texas?
Never been out of Texas right there.
Well, I went across, swim across the Red River in Oklahoma.
And I said, boy, we've been in Oklahoma.
That's the farthest I ever.
And where in Texas had you been?
The farthest I had been away from Texas, in Texas, was when I won the district track.
And went to Austin?
And I got down there, and the old boy, our track coach, was a University of Texas graduate, and they put us in one of their fraternity houses that night.
I got up the next morning, he took us over there, getting ready to run a certain race, and
And some of those old boys had fancy uniforms on, you know.
And I had that old dull gray uniform that was still dirty.
And I just, I told them, where'd you get?
I said, I saw some of their steel cleats.
And I was still in the box.
That was just how.
I guess how ignorant I was or ignorant I hadn't been anywhere.
And you had ridden on a train a few times.
Well, on a train coming to A&M, yeah.
4.49 that morning.
That Monday morning I got over there.
Compare your feelings...
the day you arrived with the day you left to go to work for four years later?
I just, I had no idea.
I really didn't.
I just, I was, I knew I had to do something.
And I had a job.
And that's what I went to A&M to get a job.
Was there ever a time when you thought about dropping out?
A&M?
Yes, sir.
Ooh.
Quiz A. I had a first quiz in chemistry.
And I came, and I got it back, and I had a 39 on it.
I called this girl up in Denton.
I said, I don't guess I'll be here long.
She said, well, I made a 39 on my quiz A. She said, you better get in there and start studying, because I'll never speak to you again.
And you know what?
That girl's been married twice.
And we still talk each other every so often.
Oh good.
She will have a birthday on July the 9th and I'll call her.
She'll call me on my birthday.
On March 16th, and we still... That's good.
Sure does.
Were there some other times when an advisor or a counselor here was very helpful to you?
I never had a counselor to talk to me.
I really didn't.
And I guess if I'd been smart, I would have gotten one.
But they cost money.
And I didn't have it.
Right.
As you look back, are there some teachers that were really important to helping you that you feel grateful to?
Well, yeah.
Celeste was one of them.
But that's after I got my junior and senior.
I had one course over there marketing.
Marketing has seen me like it's 319.
I'm not going to 301 or 303.
And we had a new professor came in here and just graduated.
And I took that course and it was September.
I took notes.
I didn't have any money to buy books.
I just had to borrow notebooks.
I just never could do anything with that guy and came up with then a D. A D was failing then.
Now it's not failing, I don't think.
the end of the second half of my senior year, I said, I've got to take that again, and I've got to pull that thing up to get a lease to see.
Went in there to take that test and old Skipper Salesman walked down the hall and he looked in there and said, then you didn't have to take finals if you didn't want to.
He said, what are you doing there taking finals?
I told him what I knew about.
You had to have a point for every hour.
And he says, well, I'll tell you what I'll do.
You got a B in my course and I'll just raise yours to an A. And so, when I finally got my exams, I had three A's and two B's and that C. So, from a B to an A hit me and then I got a C in that
314, I believe is the name of that market.
But they never used them anymore.
If you needed advice about something important, who did you go to?
I went to him.
To Skipper Schleselman?
A lot of the time I went to him and he kind of figured out my deal.
He just knew...
I was a lost cause.
I guess he'd call it.
But we made it.
Wonderful.
And let's see, one of the others.
I had a course in apriculture.
You know what apriculture is?
I had a course under the doctor.
Oh hell, I know his name as good as a dude.
Because we got an Ive out there, about 40 foot up there.
Huge colony of bees.
And so I talked to him a lot.
But I made it.
Are there if we could line up all the other people that you knew at a&m in those days if we had them all here Are there any others you'd want to thank?
If they were all still here Oh No, I don't know of any any others
All right, sir, let's see.
Did you go to muster while you were a student, Aggie muster?
This year?
No, no, back when you were a student.
No, I sure didn't.
All right, what about your Aggie ring?
When did you buy it, and how much did it cost?
This ring, this is not the first one.
This is the second or third.
The first one cost $29.95.
And a customer that I waited on all the time in the Aggie Land and bought it for me.
Really?
Sure did.
So it was a gift?
It was a gift.
And how did you feel when you first put it on?
Oh, I guess just like these kids now, just in another world.
I never thought it would ever happen, but...
Do you have any Aggie ring stories?
Did you ever lose it?
No, I never did.
You know, there have been some good ones where lost and so forth.
In fact, I'm sure in the war there were a lot of good ones.
What is it that creates Aggie spirit?
You know, that's a good question.
Unless you just see some of them every day, seven days a week.
And I guess if you needed anything at all, they'd help you.
I've never been in a case where I had to ask for an Aggie help.
But I'm sure that if I had, I would have gotten it.
Do you remember during your student days beginning to feel that there was a special spirit here?
Never thought much about it, really.
You were just here among them all, and all the...
seven days a week, you know.
Especially back there then, because we didn't have that many students.
Now, I don't know, 40 some odd thousand, I don't know.
When you have 4,000 and 43,000, there's a whole lot of difference.
As you look back, what difference did it make in your life that you attended A&M?
Oh, I don't know.
I'm just happy I did.
And I'm sure if I could—I told my wife here one time, I said, if Mama can just see me, I know that she'd be proud because none of her kids did anything but me.
And why?
I didn't have any push.
And why I came to A&M, I'll never know.
And I met lots and lots, and as you know, you've done the same thing.
Lots and lots of people here have been good.
All right, now you had a lot of determination when you got here.
Did A&M increase that?
I think so.
Just watching other students have a whole lot to do with the way you.
And I think that's the same way with you getting back to what we were talking about a while ago stealing or misrepresenting a certain thing.
That it wasn't done, so why should I do it?
As you look on your life since then, was there anything that A&M failed to do for you that you wish it had?
Not that I know of.
Here, three or four years ago, a man called me and wanted to appoint me
to be one of the... What do you call it?
Excuse me, I just... Just...
Can I move this just a little?
Do we need to unplug it?
No.
A letterman wanted me to point me on the Letterman's Association.
And I said, well, why me?
And oh, hell, I could talk forever about what I've done for the Hathaway Lake Department.
But you'd not think I'd been bragging, but anyway, I can brag about it.
And I said, yeah, and they did.
They presented me this thing right up there, which is really something.
How good.
It really was.
Let's see.
The last question then.
What feelings do you carry in your heart
for Texas A&M today?
Oh, I just wouldn't have.
I would never have been here if it hadn't been for Texas A&M.
It's meant everything to me, and it gave me what I got for 60.
We've been married 60 years on the 27th of April.
And as I was telling you a while ago,
or before all this started, that we eat up the cafeteria at least five days a week, and that one certain day, the 27th, we went in up there about 10 to 45 or 11, and there was a huge bouquet of flowers and a big
cake decorated with six chips in her.
And that was,